# Summation 3

This week's lectures and movie content centered around El Cid who is a prime example of a historical figure being distorted as part of propaganda.
The actual history of El Cid is that he was a knight and lord, not necessarily famous but certainly well-known, that found himself fighting both for and against his king due to his monarch's ineptitude. Interestingly, though he was Christian he often fought alongside Muslims.

At its roots, I think the story of El Cid holds a lot of different morals which contributes to the timeless nature of it and to the ways it has been skewed. He's the prototypical "man's man" that does what is right and gets the girl. He is an icon of rebellion and standing for what you believe. He's transcends religious divisions and cared more about the character of his brethren than their faith. He is 'pseudo-saint' that was empowered by God and performed impossible feats of combat and leadership.

In the initial fantasization of El Cid, the idea of him being a paragon of chivalry and honor was added. Additionally, a lot of Christian perspective was added though it wasn't necessarily an expression of Christian supremacy but Christian exemplification. This portrayal of El Cid is the 'slice' that often gets used in politics, where the story of El Cid is most certainly slanted further towards Christian supremacy. This distortion often erases the fact alongside Muslims and spins his time as mercenary into him having always fought for the Spanish people and of most concern; emphasizes the Christian components of his story, especially his final battles against Islamic invaders where he 'righteously kept Spain a Christian nation'.
In the movie adaptation of El Cid, he is presented as more of a unifying rebel that is loyal to no one but his countrymen. Strangely, the movie makes an effort to show his friendship with Muslims which is a positive but portrays any Muslim that is not his friend as evil, giving them the 'black hat' treatment from Western films.

Something I struggled to identify is whether or not the film was using the Medievalism trope of 'woman need saving'. Obviously the film takes a 'particular' stance on the portrayal of Jimena, but I picked up more notes of Spanish soap opera than Medieval princess. It seemed like the motivation for her depiction was to create as many scenes as possible where El Cid and her were desperately in love or tragically at odds, not to simply make El Cid seem powerful and Jimena powerless. However, that point may be moot because the origin of the 'I love you, I hate you' trope in Spanish soap operas could just be rooted in Medievalism.

For me personally, I enjoyed the movie adaptation of El Cid the most. Over the last few years I've been learning more about Arabic culture, language, and Islam and its really opened my eyes to how they are portrayed in media. I think we've moved out of the era where all bad guys in action films are Muslim extremists but that hasn't really coincided with a transition towards positive portrayals, we've just stopped really having much representation. So I really loved how the theatrical El Cid was kind to those of differing faiths and my favorite scene was when the Emirs defended El Cid from ambush staged by Ordonez.