# Summation 6

## The Seventh Seal

The Seventh Seal is a movie about the conflict of trying to reconcile his belief that God is good with the tragedies of the world told through the perspective of a crusader returning home amidst the wake of the bubonic plague. The movie opens with main protagonist Antonious and his squire on a beach where he has a vision of Death, who I understood as being a personification of Antonious' infection with the Black Plague. Antonious challenges Death to a game of chess as a bid to buy time in an effort to find meaning in his life before it is gone or as he states directly "I want to use my reprieve for one meaningful act". They walk through villages and towns seeing the horrors of the plague and the brutal, self-flagellating, and desperate side of Christianity. Eventually they find themselves in the company of a beggar woman and some troubadours. The troubadours, to some degree, represent man's ability to find moments of joy even in the face of chaos and evil. The troubadours roam in parallel with Antonius and his squire, being chased out by townsfolk that have resigned themselves to desolation until the two groups meet. It is here that Antonious finds the meaning of life; sitting in a field with new friends, a laughing child, some strawberries and cream amidst the insanity of the world. He takes pause to savor the purity of that moment and understands that the meaning for life, at least for Antonius, has an answer that is much simpler than the question: to live is the meaning of life. Eventually the party is once again exposed to the tragedies and humours of the world. They see a foolish man taken by an unfaithful but beautiful wife and watch as he believes every word of hers' implicitly, taking her back on prospect of his favorite dinner. They see a pariah begging for water, moments before the plague takes him. Eventually a storm comes upon them, forcing them to take shelter and inadvertently their final moments together. One of the performers, seeing a glimpse of death in the company of Antonius, takes his wife and child away from the party. All but those three succumb to the plague off-screen and the movie closes with the performer seeing them dance to the afterlife with death, his family surviving the plague as an image of the enduring and tenacious thing that is mankind.

## The Passion of Joan of Arc

The Passion of Joan of Arc is a reenactment of the trial in which St. Joan of Arc, not sainted at the time, is put to death. A young female soldier driven by faith, Joan of Arc was captured by the English during the war. Wanting to presumably amicably end the life of one of their opposition's greatest heroes, Joan of Arc was brought before the church on counts of blasphemy and cross-dressing. Joan during this trial was attacked on all sides by a biased court. Joan was driven to save her people, a mission she claimed she was given by God. The court dissected her with questions that highlighted her illiteracy, lack of formal religious education, and divine calling. After exploiting facts like she was taught potentially not the Lord's prayer but a prayer by her mother and that her being heaven-sent would imply that God works against the English, she is attacked for wearing men's clothing and then returned to her imprisonment. The court attempting to break her will and force her to confess that she consorted with Satan as opposed to the angels via a "Letter of Abjuration", forges a letter from their king and tortures her both physically and mentally. All of these methods fall short, and through her determination to keep her faith, she is deemed a witch and put to death by immolation.

## Lecture: The Four Horsemen

This lecture discusses how the food system of the Middle Ages was a fragile glass web. Though agriculture had experienced many technological innovations, there was an inability to build a food surplus via the absence of modern refrigeration. This paired with environmental changes resulting in the depletion of seed stocks and crop yields and outbreaks of livestock diseases caused periods of long famine. Famine taxing the trade networks, needed to import food, the prospects of war and taking resources to sustain empires grew stronger and stronger. The explosion of trade and the exponential growth of humankind leading to this period created an Eden for diseases, most notably the bubonic plague. The bubonic plague being incredibly virile, causing grotesque formations, and being misunderstood drummed up a variety of stories quoting the plague's cause as being divine in nature.

## Lecture: Monks & Dragons

Dr. Bruce describes one of the biggest misconceptions of the Middle Ages is the perception that people were less intelligent. He furthers that people haven't suddenly become intelligent in both academics and emotion, that they simply had less science than we do now. As we've explored a great deal in this class, we are in fact the same species as humans in the Medieval Era. On the topic of dragons, they were often used as representations of moral issues and were great beasts as opposed to cunning intellects. Also very notably, dragons were written as archenemies for heroes to be bested in combat, which precludes them from being adjacent to women. Because "obviously", according to Medieval men, women are not meant to fight.

## Devil's Historian Ch.6

This chapter covers several instances of how Medievalism is used in media, often in conjunction with religion, to 'paint' people as lessers. Most recently, and as continuation of post-9/11 anti-Islamic sentiments, this can be seen with the depictions of ISIS. They are often shown as being cave-dwelling savages with no logical plans or strategies, just vigilantes with many guns. This concept is extended to our idea of 'extremism' and how there is a constructed similarity of extremism and literalism. It is often assumed that religious extremists follow the letter of their holy books which in turn creates a false understanding that modern practitioners of that faith follow some watered down and more palatable version of the document. Generally, this wildly inaccurate and it is the extremists who abuse their sacred texts to fit their agendas. Which, once said aloud makes sense, as a quick Google reveals that 24% of the world is Muslim which would imply that either more than 99% of Muslims follow their doctrines incorrectly or that maybe terrorists aren't the majority.
