# Summation 5

This week's content focused on several topics related to the varying roles that existed in the Medieval world and the portrayal or lack thereof of those roles in Medievalism.

## Gender and Sexuality

In the Devil's Historian, the author discussed how the idea of binary gender and normative heterosexuality being present since the previous age is not only a lie now but a lie that was also told in the Medieval age. In those times, there people claiming that binary gender and normative heterosexuality was present since the Classical era as well. Interestingly, the author notes that while gender being a spectrum is not new, the idea of gender identity is. Based on the reading it appears that people during the Medieval age perceived gender and sexuality as being act-focused whereas we view it as being attached to an identity. More simply, we view a heterosexual as someone that performs heterosexual acts whereas in the Medieval perspective performing heterosexual acts would make you a heterosexual. I think this contributes to the unintentional erasure of certain identities in history, you can't find a gay knight but you can find knights that had homosexual relations. Note: "Unintentional Erasure" is used here as an opposition to "Intentional Erasure", not to imply that all erasure is unintentional.

## Gender Violence

In the Devil's Historian, the Last Duel, and several of the other pieces of work we've covered have discussed gender violence. In the chapter reading, the author describes how Game of Thrones was built on "medieval sex" as opposed to "contemporary sex" to which I agree with the author, is made-up idea. The only thing to have changed regarding sex in the modern era are the laws related to it, there wasn't ever a period where women were content with assault or that relationships weren't damaged by partners not believing their partners. The Last Duel I thought was interesting because it showed both a more reasonable response to sexual assault, more reasonable than 'not doing anything at all', and a very realistic view of how complicated those situations can become when a person of power is the offender. Obviously, in the Last Duel the conflict was warped into being about the honor of two men as opposed to being a battle for justice. However, I think that is also realistic because for issues like believing sexual assault survivors and finding them justice to persist into the modern day, the solution used could not have been believing sexual assault survivors and then getting them justice. I think the movie showed how even when sexual assault survivors are believed, men often internalize it as an attack on themselves and inflict some kind of violence on the perpetrator which doesn't do justice or heal the pain of their partner.

## Socioeconomic

In Onibaba and the video lectures this week, the role of peasantry was a prevalent topic. The video lecture pointed out how the depravity and moral struggle in the film was not necessarily true to the context and that it may have been a result of a perspective higher up on the socioeconomic scale. I think the content introduced in this class has helped me breakdown the kind of isolated roles that are presented by Medievalism. The role of a princess for instance is rarely viewed as intersection of female gender, aristocracy, and heterosexuality. Medievalism paints standalone roles which destroys the different spectrums that exist.
