# Summation 2

## Game of Thrones S1E1 + S1E2

The first two episodes of Game of Thrones set up three threats that move at varying paces. The first and slowest is the White Walkers, a magical looming threat over the whole world. The White Walkers in many ways mimic a lot of legends and fairy tale antagonists, they are an absolute evil and they are more ancient than man, which sets them up as an un-relatable and true enemy.

The second threat is the remnants of House Targaryen, Daenerys and Viserys. Viserys is the son of an usurped and mad king, making him the 'rightful' heir to the throne. Much like many 'rightful' heirs in medieval stories, he has a sense of entitlement and pride from advisors feeding him stories of his potential greatness. He is currently arranging the marriage of his sister, Daenerys, and a foreign warlord, Khal Drogo, for the purpose of securing an army. The Dothraki, the people of Khal Drogo, serve as an analog to the Mongol hordes of Genghis Khan. I found the Dothraki to be another instance of non-European or European-like cultures being depicted as primitive savages. While the majority of the nations in the show resemble late Middle Age society, the Dothraki resemble a culture from the early Middle Ages and possess inferior technology to the European-like counterparts.

The third and most immediate threat is House Lannister, who are performing a variety of acts of political subterfuge. The main antagonists within House Lannister are Jamie and Cersei, whom are involved in an incestuous relationship. Their relationship is depicted as simultaneously being rooted in mutual affection (eww) and the preservation of their bloodline. The latter being a motivation seen in real history, as many noble families believed they were racially or genetically superior to the common folk and because of the significance and power in familial connections.

## Lecture: Dr. Wessell Lightfoot Talks Game of Thrones

Dr. Lightfoot describes several common misconceptions people enter their classes with. The first being the perception that the Catholic Church was 'big brother' and was always watching, just waiting to punish people. They describe that for many years, the church was not all that powerful and that it was not a monolithic entity, there were a variety of differences between churches within a denomination just as there is today.

The second they discuss is the role of women and their actual roles and rights were within society. Medieval women were not unanimously furniture as they are so often depicted. There was no set role for them across society just as there wasn't for men, things like social status and religion, among many other factors, determined their place in the world. This definitely shifted my perception of the average medieval woman from being the mud-covered mother of nine to having personalities and lives much more like Rosie the Riveter and the industrious women that kept America alive during WW2.

And their final point, was that ideas like gender identity and sexuality did not spontaneously appear in recent memory. Homosexuality, non-binary and transgender identities, and other tribes have existed for as long as people have had genders and sexual desire.

## Lecture: Dr. Shadis Talks Royalty

Dr. Shadis in their introduction makes an interesting point about how medieval life was filled with art much like our current lives, and describes the basilicas and other medieval architecture they saw as a child. I thought this was really novel because a lot of depictions of medieval life are very polarizing, places are either extravagant and beautiful or they have no sign of life. Decorating the places you live in is a human trait, not a 20th Century trait. They go on to talk about how the average perception of Medieval royalty is generally shaped by specific individuals, having been influenced by the most notable examples like Queen Elizabeth. They make a point about how Queens were typically partners in governance with Kings and many are more analogous to Eleanor Roosevelt or Mileva Einstein. They also continue into describing that though they had access to wealth and amenities, being royalty was much like holding a public office with the caveat that it was a life sentence.

## Game of Thrones is Based in History - Outdated History

This article overall describes something I wrote about in my Week 1 Summary, that is the idea that medieval history gets iteratively whitened. The literature created during the medieval era was often created by white cishet men and then picked up again centuries later by white cishet men and then used in the present by, you guessed it, white cishet men. Interestingly though, the author describes how though bias may not have been intentional on behalf of George R. R. Martin, it was almost inevitable as he was drinking from a poisoned well. They note several specific instances of how the show is dominated by the male perspective, most shockingly for me pointing out there is one female friendship in the show, and orientalism in the depiction of literally all but one non-white character in the show.

## The Devil's Historian Chapter 2

In this chapter, the author describes how history inspires nationalism and the contrast of nationalism and patriotism. People fabricate origin stories of leaders or peoples which in turn gets soaked into perceptions of lineage and ancestry which blooms into nationalism, racism, and xenophobia. One of the most notable examples of this being Aryan race myth that served as the moral backing for the Nazi party and the Holocaust. The power of history is so great that the primary means of cultural engineering was to take what was and make anew. The Romans created or modified biblical figures to fit pagan gods and the Grimm Brothers 'authored' ancient stories from a variety of cultures. In the modern day, history is used by many organizations to justify oppression or to promote a political agenda and either draw on existing myths or create new ones, specific cases being the anti-Islamic movements in the UK, the political campaign of Donald Trump, and terrorist organizations in the Middle East.
